---
layout: post
title: "Meet.10"
description: "Open Data and Licensing"
category: articles
tags: [open data, licensing, creative commons, linked data, meet]
comments: true
link: https://plus.google.com/events/cncsnn9d574bpip88d2pbp1drn8?authkey=CLHs296f_OexCw
---

This meet we're going to look at Open Data and Licensing, esp. Creative Commons. Also, we have a special guest, Manu Sporny, who will present on JSON-LD and RDFa. More info on Manu:

## Event outline:

1. What is Open Data

2. Creative Commons and Open Data – Haggen So – Volunteer of CreativeCommons Hong Kong

3. JSON-LD and RDFa – Manu Sporny – Chairman for the Web Payments, PaySwarm, JSON-LD, and RDFa standardization groups at the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), JSON-LD and RDFa are useful for sharing data between web sites and more.

4. AOB

## Extra Info:

1. [Sample Presentation](https://payswarm.com/slides/2013/banodejs-jsonld/#slide1)

2. JSON-LD ~
	What is JSON-LD?

3. RDFa ~
	RDFa Basics

4. Manu's Intro Linked Data and Webpayments ~
	Code for the Web - Linked Data and Web Payments

5. Bio ~
	Manu is a Founder and CEO of Digital Bazaar. He spends most of his time creating open standards and open technology that will integrate payments into the core architecture of the Web. His vision is to democratize finance, making the financial tools that are only available to large corporations and Wall Street today, available to everyone on the Web.

	Manu is also the Chairman for the Web Payments, PaySwarm, JSON-LD, and RDFa standardization groups at the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). He coordinates technology initiatives between companies working on Firefox, Google Chrome, Bitcoin, and a number of banking organizations. Manu also oversees technical development of core Web technologies across a wide variety of technology areas and has been a primary driving force in getting Linked Data technologies like JSON-LD and RDFa adopted at companies like Google, Microsoft, Yandex, Yahoo!, and Facebook.