---
layout: post
title: "Meet.12"
description: "Applications of Open Data"
category: articles
tags: [open data, apps, meet]
comments: true
link: https://plus.google.com/events/c255kfl4t6uhi5efs7u9ul8n56g?authkey=CKOM4tHtleqmTA
---

## Meet 12 on 12/12! Madness!

Some of you need the social lubricant, others enjoy fabricating their very own Gunpowder Plot, and while +Kenneth Chen believes it's our most valuable asset, alas, the upcoming Meet won't be over beers. For the Meet dedicated to Applications of Open Data, we're relocating to the cosy setting of the GoodLab's kitchen area. It's of course absolutely lamentable that Government officials are attending the first Meet not to be held in a pub, but I promise you dear reader, we won't lose any spirit over it!

### The night's outline:

#### Data.One App Competition
(Russell WW Tang & Kimmey Ho, OGCIO)

The OGCIO has launched a competition to promote their data.one portal. Cash prizes for best entries. A member of the OGCIO details what it takes to win.

#### 3 International Trends for Open Data Applications.
(+Mart Van de Ven, ODHK)

The more often we Meet the more we take data.one for granted. This is a talk on why data.one matters. In service of that, Mart will also highlight three international trends which will help you design an open data application.

#### LicenCheck
(+Ron Tam, +林振偉, +Solomon Yan, +Chun Yin Lai, IVE)

4 bright IVE students mentored by +Scott Drummonds  and +Cyrus Wong built an open data application allowing users to check whether a restaurant is licensed. The talk goes into the technical aspects of LicenCheck and features a pretty neat idea for dealing with messy address data.

#### Freedom of Information for HK
(+Guy Freeman, ODHK)

Inspired by the likes of [WhatDoTheyKnow.com](http://whatdotheyknow.com), Guy wants to create a website, opengov.hk, for every member of the public to easily make requests under the code to the Government, and for all responses to be public. Guy walks us through the current FOI landscape in Hong Kong and discusses how a FOI Request portal would greatly improve on it.

#### Tools for Data Journalism
(+Mart Van de Ven, ODHK)

Time permitting, Mart will highlight 4 tools for Data Journalism which are equally useful when developing or refining App ideas. You'll be aching to try out all of the over a long extended weekend ... Just in time for Christmas then!

--------------

[Facebook Event](https://www.facebook.com/events/596673293701708/)

[Google+ Event](https://plus.google.com/events/c255kfl4t6uhi5efs7u9ul8n56g)

--------------

Whether you're already familiar with Open Data or just want to find out what it is, come to our regular meetup (happens every 3 weeks). No technical skills required. Come out and meet fellow Hong Kong Open Data enthusiasts.

第12次例會了！無論你已很熟悉Open Data，或只是想多認識Open Data，歡迎參加我們每三個星期的定期聚會，跟其他Open Data關注者碰面。

LOCATION
Location : Hub B (cosy pantry area) at the GoodLab!
