---
layout: post
title: "Meet.15"
description: "Open Steps"
category: articles
tags: [open data, hackathon, meet]
comments: true
link: http://www.facebook.com/events/269371976555278/
---

## OpenSteps has reached Hong Kong!

Open Steps is an initiative from Margo Thierry and Alex Corbi, two young Berliners travelling around the world meeting activists and organisations working in the field of Open Knowledge. Their research covers, among others, the promotion of the principles behind Open Source, Open Data and Open Government, or the use of data and technology for digital activism and journalistic purposes. Starting in July 2013 in Berlin and after touring Europe, India and Southeast Asia, Open Steps will now pass through Hong Kong before heading to South-America. 

On their session, they will do a recap of the most exciting projects they have discovered: the release of real-time transport data in Austria, how hackerspaces are taking the initiative to promote Open Knowledge in the Balkans, or how organisations in India are helping administrations to make efficient social improvements by analysing data. These are just a few examples of the numerous initiatives they have documented on their website so far.

Also, as featured in previous workshops, an Open Debate will be the opportunity to discuss together about the status of these topics in Hong Kong and to explore relevant projects presented by the participants.

--------------

[Facebook Event](https://www.facebook.com/events/269371976555278/)

[Google+ Event](https://plus.google.com/events/cgptm8flm7uk9fbtv2n8jogibm8?authkey=CK769ImI7_z7Pw)

--------------

Whether you're already familiar with Open Data or just want to find out what it is, come to our regular meetup (happens every 3 weeks). No technical skills required. Come out and meet fellow Hong Kong Open Data enthusiasts.

第12次例會了！無論你已很熟悉Open Data，或只是想多認識Open Data，歡迎參加我們每三個星期的定期聚會，跟其他Open Data關注者碰面。

LOCATION
Location : Dim Sum Labs, 14/F 100 Jervois Street, Sheung Wan, Hong Kong
